[Music]
hello my name is Helen rainy and today
I'll show you how to poach eggs I have a
slotted spoon here and I'm going to prop
up its handle on some big object to keep
it flat on a plate let's crack an egg
and loot and see what's inside
obviously there is the yolk the
interesting part is that there are two
types of white there is the white that
looks like this serious congestion snot
the kind you need sudafed for and there
is the way that looks like a runny nose
snot the very thin paper the runny nose
white is the kind that causes problems
during poaching the best way to deal
with it is to remove it before the egg
goes in the pot wait a few seconds for
the thin white to drip off wipe the
underside of the spoon and pour the egg
into a small ramekin or cup I have a 2
quart pot but slightly more than 2
inches of water here which is the
minimum we need for poaching let's
season that the paste with salt and
bring to a boil once you get a boil turn
down your pot to very low the water
should be barely simmering take a spoon
and stir the water to create a vortex it
doesn't need to be a violent vortex
input two revolutions of the spoon per
second as soon as I'll stop stirring
I'll bring my cup with the egg to the
very surface of the water and boom the
egg leads to go into the pot in one fast
motion or the yolk might lose the white
the reason we need the vortex is to wrap
the white around the yolk and give the
beautiful cut that shape it also helps
the white coagulant faster when a cold
air gov fully oven 70 degrees goes into
a 200 degree water the water immediately
around the egg goes off when you make
the water move new hot waters washed
over the egg constantly helping the
white coagulate it works just like the
convection fan in your oven when the egg
just starts to set about 30 seconds
that goes into the pot I stir the water
gently around it until it lets go of the
bottom this one wasn't there once that
but it never hurts to stir the pot a bit
note how the water is not bubbling at
all by now not even the tiniest bubble
if he's used thermometer to check it it
should stay under 200 to keep the white
tender we need to keep things just below
a simmer the total cooking time for an
egg varies between three and five
minutes depending on how much water you
have in the pot how much work you
drained off and how well done you like
you yolks I like my yolks runny and a
large egg in a small pot we'll get there
in about four minutes let's get our egg
out with a spatula we clean slotted
spoon and put it on a paper towel to dry
let's cook one more egg first cover your
path to return it to a simmer otherwise
the timing will be unpredictable when
the water starts to bubble turn it down
and stir with practice you could forego
dirtying aramitan and drop the egg right
from the slotted spoon into the water
you
I have 30 seconds to go with this egg
but I want to warm up my first egg so
I'll return it to the pot
here we go - beautiful eggs both at
perfect temperature if some further
eight pieces of white are bothering you
you can trim them off I think I'll have
lunch now from Hell's Kitchen in Boston
happy cooking and baking the year
[Music]